the Book of Ruth now it came to pass in
the Book of Ruth now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled that
the days when the judges ruled that
the days when the judges ruled that there was a famine in the land and a
there was a famine in the land and a
there was a famine in the land and a certain man of Bethlehem Judah went to
certain man of Bethlehem Judah went to
certain man of Bethlehem Judah went to dwell in the country of Moab he and his
dwell in the country of Moab he and his
dwell in the country of Moab he and his wife in his two sons the name of the man
wife in his two sons the name of the man
wife in his two sons the name of the man was Elimelech the name of his wife was
was Elimelech the name of his wife was
was Elimelech the name of his wife was Naomi and the names of his two sons were
Naomi and the names of his two sons were
Naomi and the names of his two sons were Marlin and Killian f effects of
Marlin and Killian f effects of
Marlin and Killian f effects of Bethlehem Judah and they went to the
Bethlehem Judah and they went to the
Bethlehem Judah and they went to the country of Moab and remained there then
country of Moab and remained there then
country of Moab and remained there then Elimelech Naomi's husband died and she
Elimelech Naomi's husband died and she
Elimelech Naomi's husband died and she was left and her two sons now they took
was left and her two sons now they took
was left and her two sons now they took wives of the women of moyen the name of
wives of the women of moyen the name of
wives of the women of moyen the name of the one was open and the name of the
the one was open and the name of the
the one was open and the name of the other Ruth and they dwelt there about
other Ruth and they dwelt there about
other Ruth and they dwelt there about ten years then both Malin and Killian
ten years then both Malin and Killian
ten years then both Malin and Killian also died so the woman survived her two
also died so the woman survived her two
also died so the woman survived her two sons and her husband then she arose with
sons and her husband then she arose with
sons and her husband then she arose with her daughters-in-law that she might
her daughters-in-law that she might
her daughters-in-law that she might return from the country of more for she
return from the country of more for she
return from the country of more for she had heard in the country of Moab that
had heard in the country of Moab that
had heard in the country of Moab that the Lord had visited his people by
the Lord had visited his people by
the Lord had visited his people by giving them bread therefore she went out
giving them bread therefore she went out
giving them bread therefore she went out from the place where she was and had two
from the place where she was and had two
from the place where she was and had two daughters-in-law with her and they went
daughters-in-law with her and they went
daughters-in-law with her and they went on the way to return to the land of
on the way to return to the land of
on the way to return to the land of Judah and Naomi said to her two
Judah and Naomi said to her two
Judah and Naomi said to her two daughters-in-law
daughters-in-law
daughters-in-law go return each to her mother's house the
go return each to her mother's house the
go return each to her mother's house the Lord deal kindly with you as you have
Lord deal kindly with you as you have
Lord deal kindly with you as you have dealt with the dead and with me the Lord
dealt with the dead and with me the Lord
dealt with the dead and with me the Lord grant that you may find rest each in the
grant that you may find rest each in the
grant that you may find rest each in the house of her husband so she kissed them
house of her husband so she kissed them
house of her husband so she kissed them and they lifted up their voices and wept
and they lifted up their voices and wept
and they lifted up their voices and wept surely we will return with you to your
surely we will return with you to your
surely we will return with you to your people
people
people turn back my daughters why will you go
turn back my daughters why will you go
turn back my daughters why will you go with me
with me
with me are there still sons in my womb that
are there still sons in my womb that
are there still sons in my womb that they need your husband's turn back my
they need your husband's turn back my
they need your husband's turn back my daughters go or I am too old to have a
daughters go or I am too old to have a
daughters go or I am too old to have a husband if I should say I have hope if I
husband if I should say I have hope if I
husband if I should say I have hope if I should have a husband tonight and should
should have a husband tonight and should
should have a husband tonight and should also bear sons would you wait for them
also bear sons would you wait for them
also bear sons would you wait for them till they were grown would you restrain
till they were grown would you restrain
till they were grown would you restrain yourselves from having husbands no my
yourselves from having husbands no my
yourselves from having husbands no my daughters for it grieves me very much
daughters for it grieves me very much
daughters for it grieves me very much for your sakes but the hand of the Lord
for your sakes but the hand of the Lord
for your sakes but the hand of the Lord has gone out against me then they lifted
has gone out against me then they lifted
has gone out against me then they lifted up their voices and wept again and Orpah
up their voices and wept again and Orpah
up their voices and wept again and Orpah kissed her mother-in-law but Ruth clung
kissed her mother-in-law but Ruth clung
kissed her mother-in-law but Ruth clung to look your sister-in-law has gone back
to look your sister-in-law has gone back
to look your sister-in-law has gone back to her people into her God's return
to her people into her God's return
to her people into her God's return after your sister-in-law entreat me not
after your sister-in-law entreat me not
after your sister-in-law entreat me not to leave you or to turn back from
to leave you or to turn back from
to leave you or to turn back from following after you for wherever you go
following after you for wherever you go
following after you for wherever you go I will go and wherever you Lodge I will
I will go and wherever you Lodge I will
I will go and wherever you Lodge I will Lodge your people shall be my people and
Lodge your people shall be my people and
Lodge your people shall be my people and your God my God where you die I will die
your God my God where you die I will die
your God my God where you die I will die and there will I be buried the Lord do
and there will I be buried the Lord do
and there will I be buried the Lord do so to me and more also if anything but
so to me and more also if anything but
so to me and more also if anything but death parts you and me
death parts you and me
death parts you and me when she saw that she was determined to
when she saw that she was determined to
when she saw that she was determined to go with her she stopped speaking to her
go with her she stopped speaking to her
go with her she stopped speaking to her now the two of them went until they came
now the two of them went until they came
now the two of them went until they came to Bethlehem and it happened when they
to Bethlehem and it happened when they
to Bethlehem and it happened when they had come to Bethlehem that all the city
had come to Bethlehem that all the city
had come to Bethlehem that all the city was excited because of them and the
was excited because of them and the
was excited because of them and the women said is this Naomi do not call me
women said is this Naomi do not call me
women said is this Naomi do not call me Naomi call me Mara for the Almighty has
Naomi call me Mara for the Almighty has
Naomi call me Mara for the Almighty has dealt very bitterly with me I went out
dealt very bitterly with me I went out
dealt very bitterly with me I went out full and the Lord has brought me home
full and the Lord has brought me home
full and the Lord has brought me home again empty why do you call me Naomi
again empty why do you call me Naomi
again empty why do you call me Naomi since the Lord has testified against me
since the Lord has testified against me
since the Lord has testified against me and the Almighty has afflicted me so may
and the Almighty has afflicted me so may
and the Almighty has afflicted me so may me return and ruth the moabite s head
me return and ruth the moabite s head
me return and ruth the moabite s head daughter-in-law with her who returned
daughter-in-law with her who returned
daughter-in-law with her who returned from the country of mine now they came
from the country of mine now they came
from the country of mine now they came to Bethlehem at the beginning of barley
to Bethlehem at the beginning of barley
to Bethlehem at the beginning of barley harvest